---
layout: post
title: Jekyll blog comments for nerds
excerpt: How to use GitHub forks for commenting on Jekyll blogs.
---

_This has been temporarily disabled while I update the layout. Sorry!_

I like GitHub a lot. That's why I host many of my projects on it and even my blog.  In that spirit, I decided to code up a (mildly convoluted) way of posting comments on my "static Jekyll blog":https://github.com/mojombo/jekyll/ using GitHub forks.

If you click on the "post a comment" link, below, it will -- after checking with you first -- fork the Textile source for this page using your GitHub account and then let you edit it. After you add your comment, you can simply submit it as a pull request.

h2. How to add a comment

At the very end of the Textile document, you'll find a little snippet of JavaScript that looks something like:

{% highlight javascript linenos %}
var comments = [
/* begin template --- copy these lines then use any valid html
                                            in your comment */
    {'github_user': 'template',
            'date': new Date(2011,8,3),
         'comment': "This is an example comment.<br />\
                     Don't forget to escape your newlines!"},
/* end template */
]
{% endhighlight %}

Then,

1. copy lines 4-7 and insert them after @/* end template */@,
2. fill in your GitHub username, the date and your comment in the appropriate fields,
3. and finally, submit the pull request.

It's not elegant but it _is_ a novelty! Let me know what you think in the comments section below.

